I assume.
Yeah.
OK, so like this is in wiki.
I can later send the links,
but pretty much I created 2 documents,
one for each option that we need to
investigate and estimate and like I went
through the whole document although
material.
Just like you mentioned that probably not
all of the content is irrelevant,
Mhm.
but I decided to go through because this
document implies lots of stuff.
I split what I could and identified into
into tasks and.
Pretty much under each task I provided
like 3 different estimations.
Mhm.
Mm-hmm.
Like by the end of this meeting we could
of course decide what's in the scope of
this POC and what it's not.
Maybe some tasks.
Are irrelevant or we don't need them at
this point. But yeah,
I decided that it's good to have them
anyway. I already went through.
Mhm.
Through this option in particular how the
data stream would require he provided his
input,
so we should be good to go with this
option for the other one.
I think I'm done with it. It's far less.
Complicated because some of the tasks are
are let's say common and shared and
they're part of this this option here.
So they're redundant in the other.
We haven't mentioned to go through the
other document with Nikki,
Mhm.
but I think we can we can do it in this
meeting.
It's really not that much.
And OK, I think I'll start. First of all,
first of all are the like the
requirements,
the dependencies that we are going to
have and what do you expect from Nagel I.
Think there are there are three main um.
Requirements and dependencies.
One of them is this Oracle database that
they will need to provide.
This should be a development database and
like database that we are going to use
for testing.
It will be on premise like they have it
by their site and it will be configured
like it will be configured with all the
configurations needed to enable CDC for
Oracle such as the archive work option
enabled supplemental logging.
I think they need to set up a dedicated
CDC database user with all the grants and
permissions.
This is already stated in the document
that they are going to provide it.
Also like they need to make sure that we
have access to this on-premise Oracle
database from our GCP environment and the
third thing is that they will also need
to provide the GCP environment itself
apart from the database.
This should be like a brand new GCP
environment.
I would imagine because we don't want to
to mess with our existing test
environment and mess up the test
environment. Yeah,
Yeah.
so this this is already stated in quite.
Mhm.
I'm going from there.
The first task is about the communication
with the Nagia ID about these
requirements.
I expect that I expect that there will be
Mhm.
some back and forth communication,
for example about the configurations that
needs to be enabled on the database.
They might not be enough,
they might not be working.
Also about this user in the ideal
situation,
everything will be will be fine,
like they will set up everything
correctly from the first try,
but realistically I expect like two or
three hours effort in terms of
communication with them.
This is just about setting up these
access requirements and making sure that
Yeah.
they are existing and working.
Mm-hmm.
Going from there, the second task,
which is probably one of actually the
biggest task I think is after they
provide this this GCP environment we
should be empty.
I would imagine we need to configure.
All the infrastructure needed for the for
the CDC such as we need to create the
data stream,
we need to create the cloud storage,
the pub sub,
the cloud function and also very
importantly apart from creating all these
components.
In the cloud,
we will have to also make sure that we
integrate the data stream with existing
Postgres database,
because what will happen in reality in
production is that capturing events from
Postgres and Oracle will work
simultaneously.
Meaning that now when we do the POC for
Oracle,
we need to make sure to simulate that we
need to make sure that we have an
existing stream from for Postgres and
then obviously like create the separate
stream from Oracle and make sure that
they exist together and work correctly.
So this is just about the setting up.
Up of this GCP environment,
creating the components and configuring
and integrating with some program dev
database.
Mhm.
These are the estimates that we gave like
probably one full day of DevOps effort is
the optimistic scenario.
Day and a half is the realistic and yeah,
Mhm.
today's like if.
Like if you have some some issues with
the with the new environment uh for some
Yeah.
reason.
Yeah, I think that's good.
I also asked this guy, Dominik Landau.
So yeah, sitting.
I think I mentioned him his name already.
He is currently documenting how the GCP
Mm.
setup is working.
I forwarded you the e-mail yesterday.
He could also support here.
I have asked him and he's fine with that
Yeah,
that's that's after all that's our
if that helps.
environment like the current,
the current CDC data stream is something
we implemented.
Nikki has the knowledge to to to build it
Mhm.
up. So it's just about putting the effort.
Yeah, but to be clear,
we do this on Nagel GCP, not on P3 GCP,
right?
Otherwise we wouldn't have the on-premise
connection anyway.
Well, they will be.
I assume so, yeah,
they they they'll just provide,
Yeah.
provide the environment like empty,
empty and we'll build,
All good.
we'll build the the infrastructure.
OK,
so the next task I thought that there
were some configurations in GCP in terms
of connection to the to this on premise
Oracle database.
Nico I confirmed though that we should
not be spending any effort here like once
they configured the the VPN and.
Hmm, yeah.
Connectivity to this on-premise database
now also that you say that this GCP
environment like will be like on their
side like we should not be having any
effort in terms of configuring connection
to the to the Oracle database from the
Yeah, mhm.
cloud.
So this task is not needed.
The next the next task after after we
Yep.
created the the infrastructure,
the basic infrastructure that we have now
is configuring the data stream itself for
the for the Oracle.
Like doing some some investigation,
it seems that we need to perform tasks
such as creating connection profile.
We need to set up the the the new stream
with its source and destination like
being the Oracle database and the the
bucket for example and pretty much all
the configurations needed.
For the data stream to actually start
capturing these events from the Oracle
database,
we expect this to be purely some
Yeah.
configurations like it should be two or
three hours of configurations to for the
data stream to to.
To start capturing.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
After we do this,
the next the next step is to configure
the cloud storage, the bucket.
What we need to configure there is
currently with our Postgres stream.
The events are going into the bucket,
but now when we are going to have another
stream for the Oracle, we need to.
Make prefixes like like making sure that
these two streams together are going
separately and not being mixed up.
We are going to be reused obviously the
Mhm.
same data stream, the same bucket,
but the bucket like.
Like similarly to how a folder system
works like if you imagine like two
different folders we need like such
separation for for the for the different
Mhm.
streams.
This is both both for monitoring also
Yeah.
troubleshooting and just see it looks
like the the.
Best practice here.
So this should take like an hour or two.
Mhm.
It should not be something complex.
Yeah, one question here.
I left that open intentionally because
After.
you can also we can probably, yeah,
we can review our current set up because
You can create another bucket.
For example.
I think you could also directly stream to
pops up something.
I read for data stream.
I this is really I also investigated but
it seems that this is not possible.
This is actually why why we went with
that approach from the beginning like
Mhm.
OK.
seems that it's not possible.
Usually usually like I think that the
Mhm.
most common production setup is.
After the data stream there there like
there is a data flow pipe point which
Mm.
from which from there like you can do all
kind of stuff.
It's I think very powerful too and but
instead of this we have the bucket in the
Yeah.
Mhm.
code function.
But here yeah like ideally we should
Yeah.
reuse the bucket.
For example,
if something like like it's not working
there,
I think that the we could also always
create another bucket,
but I don't think that would be the case.
Bobby, I see your hand raise that.
Yeah, I mean for the data flow,
I think we investigated this option and
Maybe.
we decided that it's like we won't use
the full capability.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I remember.
So This is why we don't need it.
And also just because we mentioned like
Mhm.
the Oracle database,
like do we need like some stuff?
Allowed on this database before we can
start connecting here with the data
Yeah, yeah, you missed this part Bobby.
Like they're here. No, dear, no,
stream because uh like the replication.
no replication is Postgres specific.
But for Oracle there are multiple
configurations that needs to be enabled,
such as archive folks,
supplemental logging.
They need to create a CDC user with the
rights,
but this is all implied in the document
OK.
that will be provided from the ID.
Yeah, yeah.
Because I remember that like for one of
the other projects,
they had like some feature of the Oracle
database enabled to like they didn't know
about it, but it was charging quite a lot.
So just we need to make sure that like
they're fine with this if we're going
with this approach.
This is really on on their site.
I mean the coasts around it, yeah.
Yeah.
This is basically the bottom line we want
to achieve that we have defined the
requirements we expect from them. Yeah,
but that's exactly the thinking we need.
Yeah,
we have the syncing process from the
beginning. Like here,
the first task is about any communication
which will happen around making sure that
these access requirements and these
dependencies are met and are working
correctly.
Ideally they they they should have it
everything wired up correctly and
configured correctly, but yeah,
there might be some communication going
back and forth.
Yeah.
OK. OK. Yeah.
I can also wrap up the meeting until here
when you tag facilitator, facilitator,
sorry,
then you can probably quickly catch up
what we talked about so far.
Uh,
you want me to you want me to start from
In the chat.
the beginning?
No, no, no. For Boyan. For Boyan.
No, no, no, no, no. I, I, yeah, yeah,
I I called like from like 5,
Mhm.
I joined 5 minutes later, but it's fine.
It's fine. Sorry. You can go ahead.
Mm-hmm. Yeah, Joseph is going fast.
Yeah.
You can go ahead. You can go ahead. Yeah,
you can go ahead. Sorry.
OK,
so after we configure the data stream and
All good. Good.
we make the changes over the bucket,
the next thing which like the next task
potential task is we need to check if we
need to make some changes in the cloud
function.
I don't expect for us to make any changes
there because whether we capture events
from Postgres or Oracle like we use data
stream so so the event,
so the envelope and the event type would
be the same and I think that the cloud
function should just work out-of-the-box.
That's why I said that optimistically.
We should not be doing any changes in the
quad function,
but I read that although like the
envelope structure is the same,
there are some different in the values
for like for example there is some
metadata that might be different.
So just in case like there is something
that needs to be.
Adjusted there like 2 hours buffer to
make any potential changes in the quote
function.
Ideally it should just start working.
We should not care whether this event is
an Oracle or Postgres one.
Mhm.
Yeah. So just to be clear,
you talk about our function that we have
for filtering shipments, is that correct?
OK,
Yes, yes, yes.
because I think here we have a little
mismatch of the scope.
I said to myself,
and I think I also said that to Christian,
that we are happy once we see events
coming in from data stream into the store
Mm.
because from there it's literally only
cloud specific.
OK, we can cut, we can cut, cut this.
That's fine. If you say we can cut it,
Configuration.
No,
I I just want to discuss this because I
yeah, I am.
by now I probably have changed my mind
and think it's maybe good,
but then it's also more complex. You know,
we want to keep this POC small and when
we add such things,
it adds of course quality,
but it also raises the price.
That's just what I what I have in my head
and I wanted to share it.
To be honest, to be honest,
knowing the full scope of the tasks I
We can discuss this later.
have defined,
I don't think that that would make that
much of a difference,
especially for the data stream.
But really the cloud function is really
the last component in the chain.
Hmm.
OK.
Like I mean after it is just the pops up,
but like.
Mm.
Not much there.
So it really with this task we wrap up
the the the quality infrastructure and we
make the cut there.
Mhm.
We can make the cut earlier at the the
storage,
but like as you will see there's not much
effort.
Mm.
Um, dedicated for this.
So like it's a friend,
it's someone raised hand because like I'm
not looking at the.
Yeah.
No, no, no one else.
I think OK, yeah,
so going from there at this point here up
OK.
until task six,
like the basic heavy 4 should be working
at least at least we should expect so.
So the next task is just about dev
testing which actually will help.
To happen along the way that that we
pretty much.
I received the events and we covered the
HP4 and the functionality is working.
It's just like one or two hours for this
effort just just going back and forth.
Mm-hmm.
Um.
Now the next the next task after we like
have this all set up and running.
Ideally we like this task is about
measuring the the latency and performance.
This is a bit tricky.
Because the document you provided,
Matthias,
implies that we need to simulate
production like traffic,
meaning because we have the CDC set up,
we have the database which they provided
Hmm.
for us,
but no one is actually making changes.
Changes on this database,
it's not a production database.
So it would it would be us that we make
these changes and somehow see how like
how the CDC reacts and like what's the
what's the latency,
Mhm.
what's the throughput and so on.
And in order to simulate this this
traffic I think first.
We need to write the some some some DB
script like there are different options
there how this could be simulated.
I think the most naive would be would be
just to simulate it with some with some
script.
Yes, well.
In that regard,
I checked because if you remember we had
like a topic going on with the QS about
the load test for exactly for the CDC.
I think that those tests are uploaded and
we have like AJ metascript I think for
those exactly for load tests when it
comes to the CDC.
Of course it's made for Postgres,
but I think it that if it's there and if
Thank you.
if Jmeter is like a at least from your
perspective is good enough option to
simulate this traffic.
Oh, it doesn't. I think it's good enough.
Yes,
especially for the POCI think it doesn't
matter like we can choose even the the
most naive option.
Like I don't think that we should go like
very big in terms of simulating this
traffic.
I think we just need something that that
that will give us some some certainty.
Mm-hmm.
It would be very nice if we can reuse
such script. You say that it exists.
If it exists,
of course we should be easy to adjust to
Yeah, yeah.
the Oracle syntax so we can reuse it.
But the second part, like the first part,
is having the script or having the tool.
That will actually perform this this
simulations and the next part is exactly
how how do we how do we execute it
against the database?
Because the database is is an on premise
database, it's not for example our OIDB,
it's not it's not a GCP component.
So after quick investigation,
like in order to to to obtain such access
where you can execute the queries
directly against the database in the
cloud,
most often you need to create a resource
in the platform itself.
It that could be either some some
dedicated small dedicated virtual machine
or cloud function or pretty much
component that has this networking can
accessibility to the database.
So you can connect this component and
just.
Do the execution from there.
I sync sync with Nikolay about this and
the realistic here is like 6 hours.
This is meaning 2 hours for preparing the
the scripts which as we discussed might
be relevant. If you already have them,
this could be just like.
It could be skipped and then we have
these four hours DevOps work where we
need to make sure that we set up the
components or do the investigation like
how to actually execute.
Mm-hmm.
Execute this performance test.
Yeah, that's that's a great preparation.
However,
So.
I'm thinking about bringing in another
option, which is Thomas Krause,
who could be able to help us with
real-time data.
Branched off from Ormes.
Um,
that would actually be preferred if it's
possible,
and make it a requirement on their end
instead of an effort on our end.
But this is not about seeding data.
You you understand, right?
It's about making the updates.
Updates on Sendum, right?
So he could provide real new incoming
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Sendum's records. Is this?
That's what I mean.
OK.
Yeah, but.
It's most realistic and prod.
Near.
Yeah,
but like much we also have like those
changes,
it's not only the incoming of the new
shipments from OMS,
we also have the like the capability of
changing those shipments and we should
also react to this.
True. True. True. True. True. Yeah, yeah.
So essentially that would probably be
good for providing new shipments and
checking how we react to those, but.
Like we have two more use cases where we
edit or delete such shipments.
Mhm.
See. Yeah, yeah, good point. All right,
let's move on.
So this is this task is about execution
of this performance testing.
It's not about collecting it just to to
to make the line there.
So this task eight is about execution and
the next the next task is actually about
connecting the this performance metrics.
And like we discussed with Nik why is
that at least from what this document
applies,
there's quite a lot to be collected there
and it is really time consuming.
We need to 1st measure measure the end to
end latency,
meaning that we make a change in the
database and just.
Just capture how long did it take to to
come to the storage.
This is probably the easier type of
measurement,
but then like we need to to monitor some
some data stream metrics that are
available out-of-the-box,
but we need to somehow like aggregate
them and make sense of them.
We need to measure throughput which is
which is I think tricky.
Like for example we need to to let's say
let's say update 1000 shipments at the
same time in the Oracle database and just
pretty much observe how this
simultaneously.
Inserted, let's say 1000 shipments,
how they actually are being throttled and
through through the through the pipeline
and whether there is an issue with that.
Hmm.
We also need to monitor as per the
document this archive for generation rate.
This is Oracle database specific.
This is pretty much like you make a query
against the Oracle database to obtain
this metric,
but we need to to to to observe there to
see if there are some like how how
quickly it behaves if there is some luck.
When we do the different operations,
we also need to measure some resource
Yeah.
utilization like this.
This should be simple like it should be
coming out-of-the-box. We just need to.
To measure it along the way and I think
also one tricky point is identifying this
this breaking point like meaning that we
we start with some some moderate traffic
and then we just increase it until.
Actually we start seeing luck or we start
seeing some some issues.
M.
And doing this along the way,
we're actually will be we'll be observing
each of these metrics and see how it
behaves. For example,
starting with moderate traffic,
we observe the generation rate,
we observe the throughput,
we observe the metric CPU,
then we increase and every time with each
step we just monitor everything.
That's why like me and Nikki like
estimate this with nearly a day to to to
pretty much collect everything.
It could be done obviously quicker like.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So we collect the metrics.
Then this is probably one of the most
interesting parts.
This is the the redo lock.
So like this is again Oracle database
specific.
This is pretty much something similar to
the wall that we have in Postgres.
This is pretty much the the locks that
are sharing the history of what has been.
Changed in the Oracle database.
This lock has this configuration of
expiry. In the document you provided,
the client said that there are specific
branches, for example the D33 branch.
Which has this one hour redo lock
retention set, meaning that.
The the Oracle database persist this
locks for one hour and if we don't read
it within this one hour they are deleted
so we lose the history like doing some
Mhm.
quick investigations.
This is like really really small.
Small constraint the one hour.
Usually usually databases have like like
Mhm. Yeah.
48 to to to to 76 hours expiration set.
One hour is really small and actually in
the in the real world scenarios this
could be hit.
Very easily either by some operations
running on the database,
some heavy operations which will induce
lag or for example the on premise
database is not accessible or something
else happens like really this is really a
Hmm.
concern.
Um.
Yeah.
Yeah,
I I I I noticed that it wasn't answered
So here this part.
by some of the database responsibles.
Yeah,
I'm I'm just thinking how and if we
should include it in the POC,
of course we must raise it.
I'll I'll continue continue with that
just yeah just like the first part which
But yeah, just continue, yeah.
I'm not sure like because this the
document says that we need to test the
the redo log gap scenario and document
recovery steps.
Really like when you think about it,
I don't see the point of this.
I mean we can very easily test this like
we can just make sure that the data
stream is soft line and like this
expiration like expires like the the the
walks expire and they're being deleted.
But what would what actually we are doing
Mm.
from there. This is pretty much a point.
From which there is a,
let's say after they expire, expire.
At least the way how we use this CDC,
it's actually a point of no return kind
of because like.
We we can't, we can't really do much.
First when this happens,
we need to restart,
restart the the the stream and the
connection profile.
Pretty much when this happens,
the data stream is broken and it needs to
be manually like restarted like DevOps
work just to make sure that that it's
working again.
For the new changes,
but these these these changes which have
been deleted,
really we cannot restore them even with
backfill or whatever.
Like the backfill actually doesn't work
for our scenario because we are not using
the CDC in sense of replication,
we are using it in the sense of event
streaming.
So really what we can do here is just
document these recovery steps,
pretty much saying that when this happens,
the stream,
the DevOps needs to restart the stream
just so it's live and at least working
for the new events.
And we should also document and say that
Huh.
there's not really much that it could be
done.
At least,
at least with our current implementation.
And yeah,
here like the first part design CDC
Mhm.
solution with recovery releasing
capability.
I'm not even sure like how to address
this.
I think that's this is a very big topic
and I think we should.
Pretty much discopied from the POC. Ivo,
I saw your hand.
Yeah,
so usually these kind of replications,
they kind of include both real time and
batching layers,
which are usually like implemented with a
separate, let's say, implementation.
What I mean, for example,
there could be one process that's
Hey.
utilized for initial data synchronization
or for fixing the data replication
process.
If there's such kind of a process,
of course,
if it's only like notify the end user.
That's one thing,
but if any derived data based on the
Hmm.
initial one was placed in some other
database,
this means there's additional data
transformation process that let's say
might be causing some bugs and if if the
data.
Mhm.
Has sufficient, let's say,
requirements about a retention or like it
doesn't decay over time or it's
meaningful to have this data captured for
a longer period than this means.
There is a need for reprocessing some of
these historical data,
so it's fixed at some point.
And the third thing is like against
Hey.
protecting against such kind of issues
like some systems being down and buffers
being.
Filled in in a way that they cannot be
recovered unless a full resynchronization
takes place.
Yeah.
This is really the reconciliation process,
right?
This is pretty much the process where
where you just after this expiration
Yeah.
happens that this is just a process of
recovering from that like for example
that like this, this,
this walks could be backed up.
If we have such process like they they
could be backed up something somewhere
permanently and for example when this
expiration happens for some reason we are
able to to read this lock. But yeah,
I mean we.
Depends on what the operations are.
There might be different solution,
Mm.
but end of the day we there must be like
for a robust process.
It would always happen that data like it
would happen something to the replication.
And there must be a process to reconcile
again the data reprocess again.
Thank you.
This should be incorporated in a target
solution. Might not be part of the PUC,
Mm.
but should be part of a target solution.
OK.
Yeah, I mean.
Yeah, for sure we don't.
We don't even have that for the CDC as
well. Uh, for the Postgres.
Yeah.
We we see from the discussion that we're
heading towards detail while we're still
at the very beginning where we need to
decide which solution to pick.
So this for me is our edge cases
currently.
We will bring it up.
Say that we de scope this from the POC
for the sake of getting the decision
first for which tool we use,
because the root cause for this is
something completely different.
It's limited space on some machine
licensing or whatever.
I don't even would say it must be solved
with a new mechanism from our side.
Could also be solved by increasing
memories or whatever is required to make
this lock bigger so.
I think that's too big for the POC.
Thank you.
Yeah, of course I'm.
I'm not referring to the PUC,
I'm just referring to the final solution
and the tools that we are trying to
Yeah.
evaluate.
They in theory should be able to make our
job easier for the final solution.
Which in in terms means if a tool can
support both the real time layer and the
Hmm.
the historical backfill.
Then this is a priority compared to
others that can only support one of those
Mhm.
layers.
Yeah,
so the real take away here is then to add
this to our criteria list when evaluating
the solution.
Yeah.
OK.
Can you cover that somewhere or is it
written here,
the building documentation in case of
redo links? Yeah. All right. Good, good.
It's there. Thanks.
This is about just just pretty much
describing what we just said that
currently like we like saying that when
the expiration happens the data stream
Mhm.
needs to be restarted just to make it
live again and also document that
currently we don't have recovery steps
and.
This is out of the scope of the POC and
pretty much that at this at this point of
our infrastructure,
this is like a scenario which we cannot
recover from.
Mhm.
So yeah, this is, uh,
at this point is just about documentation.
Uh, going from there,
the next task is about collecting the
costs. Um.
This should be simpler than performance
than collecting performance like we
estimated like one to three hours,
probably 2 hours for example just to
Mhm.
collect this cost.
Obviously to make to collect these costs
we need some some actual input from Nagio.
For the volume that we they expect and
this volume probably for the POC should
be volume per branch because we we can't
like I mean yeah they need to provide
Mhm.
some some input so we can calculate this
but.
Apart from that,
it should not be a problem here.
Yeah.
Mhm.
But in terms of calculating the the data
stream, it's a bit not tricky,
but the data stream will be working both
for Postgres and Oracle and it should
even.
That that should be the way to go in
almost all of the scenarios.
Like you don't need separate data stream
component for different streams,
you just create different streams.
So measuring the measuring the for it if
they want to measure the cost only for
the Oracle.
But actually right now we don't have
production traffic like the the the
events that we are listening for Postgres
like there will be no events because no
one will be making changes.
So I think that we would be able to
isolate that.
But what I mean is that we have two
Mm.
different streams.
Yeah.
OK.
Next task is about this POC setup
implementation guide.
I think this is actually will take time
to be honest.
I think it will take more than four hours
like pretty much we need to document the
Mm.
whole flow like starting from building
the infrastructure like the data stream
the.
That puts up all the configurations that
that happened and to enable Oracle pretty
much document the whole thing like the
documentations like I we put 246 but.
Yeah.
To be honest,
I think that it inquires more to the
Hmm.
pessimistic side.
Usually this stuff takes time.
Yeah.
Here they mentioned Oracle database
installation configuration.
I assume that this is more of a mistake
because it's something they will need to
provide,
so we will not be able to to actually
True. Yeah.
document it.
OK,
now the document was implying
implementing alerting,
but I think and what we discussed with
Nico,
it doesn't make sense to be part of the
POC.
Usually alerting is something first that
it's not trivial and 2nd that it's
implementing.
At the very end of the whole process
chain. Uh.
Mm.
Because you set up some rules that are
very business use case specific, so.
Yeah.
In my opinion,
I think we should scope our setup from
the POC.
I think so too,
specifically because there will be a new
completely new set up from P3 side
including a whole new company.
I think you've heard of it,
the Mind Shoring X Cloud Experts
subcompany.
Which will join P3 with people that are
already working on the Nagel client and
there will be a operational support
service like fully.
Managed service available where we can
exactly put such application specific
monitoring and alerting and I agree it's
it's totally individual.
Like for example from the recent
learnings of the replication slot
explosion,
we probably would want to monitor those.
So it really depends on the application
and I would also not take this into the
POC here.
OK, to be honest,
I think the same thing applies for the
next task,
which is documenting and writing down the
day-to-day operations and troubleshooting
guide.
Mhm, mhm.
Usually this is again something that it's
happened after the whole workflow is
implemented like I think this is
something that we should do.
Yeah.
Like when we actually implement the real,
the real infrastructure on their side in
the end,
providing these day-to-day operations and
Yeah.
troubleshooting.
Mhm.
Great.
OK,
our next task like is writing this area
document. To be honest,
this looks really scary in terms of
Mhm.
content like like there's so much stuff
like I put this here. To be honest,
I don't think so.
Mm.
if you if you say Yosek, please.
Write down the ADR for me. Uh,
probably to take a week for me.
No, no, that's that's more.
That's on me and the develop. No, no, no,
It probably would take a week, but yeah.
no, that's not developer work.
That's architecture work.
I also put a day, I think.
Yeah, I mean there, there's a lot, there,
there's a lot here like this risk
In my estimates.
Mm.
independence that is strategic alignments
like this road map,
Yeah,
but you can also reference to other
this mitigation strategies, yeah.
resources in such an ADR.
The ADR is really just documenting the
decision itself, as the name says.
So yeah, it's fine. Keep,
keep the the numbers here.
OK,
well then the next is this writing this
production rollout plan.
This is also looking scary to be honest.
Yeah, see,
of course we need to probably think about
There's a lot of stuff here.
that again. What is meant by it?
It's probably also too big for the POC.
I think yes.
They have a lot of stuff here.
I gave that direction when I wrote the
other document,
but by now I also think it's too big.
We should really de-scope it.
Mm-hmm.
And then the cost analysis document.
Yeah.
This sounds relatively way more simpler
like just document some some licensing.
Pretty much we all at this point will be
already collected the costs.
And here like just need to build the
document around them.
That's pretty much it.
I think I haven't calculated totals.
Hmm.
OK, so this last one I what about?
I mean I I can.
I will share these links after the
meeting in the chat.
You can just feel free to.
Mhm.
Maybe two things.
The last task I don't understand.
Yeah.
What do we? What is the work we do here?
Writing down this cost analysis document
they need.
For upfront now,
so they know what the PLC will cost or
what for.
They they are a lot of a lot of stuff as
you can see included here first like the
effort,
then the cost about the the
infrastructure, yeah data stream options.
So this 12 month total cost of ownership.
Mhm.
And then some comparisons is pretty much
the document.
Mhm.
I mean not sure how much that makes sense
for the POC,
Mm.
but it's mentioned in the document you
said.
Yeah.
Yes.
What it boils down to in terms of costs
is obviously the licensing and operation
costs for the two solutions based on the
actual expected traffic and base fees per
month, subscriptions and things like that.
That's really.
What is important to at least frame?
I mean we cannot give completely
waterproof analysis here.
It really depends on on real numbers
later on and and utilization.
But I think we can.
We can keep it.
There will be some effort to produce
these numbers.
Mhm.
Just a brief question when it comes to
cost and everything,
We.
something which came to my mind which I
don't think I could.
It's not directly related with the POC at
this point,
but it's think it's quite important topic
which could also be important for the
cost analysis.
For the cost analysis,
how do they stand in terms of the
operation support topic?
Because like even not for new for new
dispo but like all of for all of the
other project we need to have operation
someone who is able to support those
system in cases some things occur.
Mm-hmm.
I mean,
this is a topic we have not discussed,
Yeah, that's.
I believe,
but it's quite an important topic I think.
Mhm.
That's what I tried to say earlier.
A huge initiative is coming up there with
total new people joining the company and
providing these services.
Also handing handoffs between development
and operations would be part of that.
Probably a dedicated team that is 24/7 or
whatever service time available and so on.
This is all coming in my opinion too late.
Should have started planning that already
last year.
But unfortunately,
some management decisions prevented us
So.
from doing so.
But that's that's what's going on in the
background.
Then one more thing,
one more thing which I forgot to add into
this document like I saw in in the
document you sent.
I saw this timeline which represents
actual days not working time and it was
Uh.
saying three to four weeks and like I'm
just wanted to make sure that you
consider the capacity of the people.
That are going to be involved here
because for example if something we said
Yeah.
that it took two days of development
effort,
obviously the person who will be
developing this will have other tasks and
like and it might actually take four or
five days for him to.
Hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, I just.
I'm pretty sure you you know this, but.
Remove that. I I will take that out.
This was just based on some assumptions.
Just.
It totally depends on how the client will,
yeah, put the deal. They want it fast.
We need to bring in new people.
If it's fine to do it somehow on the side
with people who probably also work on
other topics,
it's going to extend to a bigger timeline
that will not be in our offer.
I think I'll remove it.
Well, first just.
Do you want to go to this one?
I think it's quite smaller actually.
Yeah, we should. We are also.
Do I close in time? Yeah, let's go there.
Yeah, it's smaller.
I think it will be quick. So again,
starting from the prerequisites and the
requirements like at this point we will
Mhm.
have already the GCP environment provided.
And like set up with our like if you
start let's say with the with the data
stream.
At this point we have the environment set
up.
They need to provide this Oracle database
that will be connected with the stream
and integrated.
Um.
Yeah,
I think from from from this point knowing
this again we have some communication in
terms of like we need some information
around the stream.
For example what version it is because
like it it makes a difference like what
features it support it makes.
Transport.
The envelope structure we need to
understand exactly what is the deployment
type. Is it in Kubernetes?
Is it on some virtual machine?
Mhm.
And we need to pretty much align on the
strategy with Nagio IT how we are going
to configure this stream because in order
to enable it.
And connected to our Google cloud,
we need to make configurations such as
the authentication like we need to create
service account service.
Sorry in GCP obviously then we need to to
apply some configurations on the stream
component itself, so.
We need to understand how exactly we're
going to access their on premise stream.
Who will is it then who will apply these
configurations?
We just say what they need to do and they
do it.
Should they just give it the give us some
access and we apply these configurations
which I think it would be a better option
because.
Because after all this is a development
process,
it can go back and forth and if we if we
are in this loop of us saying what they
need to do, it might take time. But yeah,
this is this is about some communication
Yeah.
and configurations like not the not the
configuration cell but communications.
And um, just I want on the strategy. Um.
Yeah, that's definitely a good task,
a needed task.
About.
Mm-hmm. After we align this,
we will have again some tasks like some
configurations that we need to apply to
the bucket.
Mhm.
Because now I previously said that if we
imagine this is a folder structure,
we have two different streams for Oracle
and.
But now I think that for the scope of the
POC we want to implement one level above
that.
We want to implement a level where we
have data stream,
for example Postgres and Oracle and then
then we have like stream Oracle.
This is needed in order to not.
Scratch from the beginning and also to
keep the the previous POC existing.
I mean we want to ideally I think
implement the two POCs and have them
leave simultaneously because otherwise we
have to repeat this process of first we
Mm-hmm.
have to.
To to pretty much delete the the the old
POC like just just remove it and also you
have to reconfigure and recreate some
components which I think is not ideal and
also I think that we want to see.
Both of them working together in parallel,
probably compare and we have a single
Yeah.
environment, single GCP environment.
So this is really the way to go.
So we need to configure this bucket
pretty much in something similar.
Uh huh.
So this should not be again,
should not be something complicated,
Yeah.
like one or two hours should be enough.
Then it's about the authentication and
Mhm.
authorization like the.
This stream component that they have on
premise.
This is an external to GCP component like
it's on premise which means that in order
to set up the identity we need to create
the service account.
We need to set up some permissions.
We need to generate this this account key
for the stream.
Yeah,
so this is about setting up the identity
in GCP for the stream. Nikki,
I haven't said this like we need to to to
Yeah.
set these estimates now.
What do you think?
So as far as I know,
on the Google cloud there is service
account keys are disabled,
so we should find another way of
authentication.
Is this what we discussed with Matt back
then? I think, yeah, yeah.
Yes.
So if you have to estimate this having in
mind what you just said.
What would you put in estimates for the
three scenarios?
Oh.
I don't know exactly,
but so the the authentication should be
different.
As for the other things, uh.
If if it is a service account key,
it's just one hour, but.
This is about the authentication like the
it's not about being.
Let's put that as an optimistic, right?
That's fine.
Yeah.
I think it should be as optimistic.
What if it's not like?
Yeah.
2.
What do you think is the the other end of
the spectrum?
One day, let's see.
Two days.
So let the 8 hours and if we have this
like in in between should be like this
that that this is fine.
Yes.
Uh.
OK then.
The next task after we set up the
identity in terms of GCP,
we need to actually configure this this
identity in the stream component itself.
So this task is about setting up and
configuring the the stream like from what
I have read like I haven't touched this
stream before, but we need to create some.
New client in in the stream echo space in
the stream environment like new app
that'd be essentially our GCP and our CDC
mechanism.
We need to configure the output target
for the stream like saying that we need
to publish in the bucket,
we need to set up the authentication.
Pretty much the identity that we just
created in the previous step we need to.
There are also some configurations there
in terms of the output format,
which is like it could be Jason,
it could be something else,
but we need to to probably do some quick
investigation there because later this is
also a question.
Mark whether we need this task,
but we need to make this adapter because
data stream and this stream.
Obviously there are different tools that
they have different output formats.
What we should do in theory is we should
make some interfaces.
Where we normalize the the event,
the envelope structures from these two
different tools into one unified
interface so that we can reuse then the
the cloud function and the whole pipeline.
So what I mean is that.
Probably this like a very quick
investigation about this this form of
types. Um.
Mhm.
So this is this is just about setting up
the stream component,
just cooking it up to our to our cloud
environment.
Yeah.
I'm not sure how much effort that would
be here.
I think no one actually we know that no
one here has worked with with stream
before.
Mhm.
But I would expect that that this should
be like 4 hours. I don't think that if I.
Mm.
The way how I feel,
we feel it now is something like this.
It shouldn't be that that hard.
You could also argue that it's out of
scope.
You say the PO CS goal is to see events
in the cloud. That's it.
Harmonization could be something else.
Yes, yes,
but the the harmonization is only the
last part here. I mean,
I mean we need this for the anyway for
Hmm, yeah.
the POC.
The harmonization in terms on the context
Mm.
of this task is about this quick
investigations about the formal type
which you can skip,
but I don't think that it makes a change
Yeah.
on the.
Mhm.
Estimations.
All right. Looking at the time,
let's go a bit quicker. I mean,
we also just need a total in the end and
we will always apply a buffer anyway, 10%,
Gabe.
20, whatever. So what's coming up next,
the five task 5?
Next next up next types is is a is a is a
dev testing.
Yeah then this is this is pretty much the
adapter.
Have testing good. Also fine.
Task six is the adapter which is probably
the biggest the the biggest task with
6.
with this option.
I think though that we can skip,
I think that it would be enough that we
Mm.
just make sure that the events are coming
in the bucket,
Yeah.
although with a different structure.
I think so too.
OK. And then, uh, we.
The.
I'm not sure I put put this dev testing
twice. Um.
Ulicit.
Mm.
OK. Either way we we we go from there.
So we collect performance metrics.
Same. Yeah, skip that one.
This is pretty much the the same task
that we have from the last.
Mhm.
I think I actually just copied over
collecting then the cost the again.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
Collecting the costs and then writing
this implementation or guide and all the
Mhm.
rest of the steps are already covered in
the other POC so.
Yeah.
It's delete.
Good.
Then can we quickly somehow get the
totals here?
Just need a feeling where we are.
So this is marked on right?
I will.
Maybe.
Our good almighty will help.
Yeah.
Then you never,
never start with the next question.
I don't even understand the question here
at the top and the middle.
Um.
So this is A or B?
So this is the data stream,
but keep in mind that here they are the
Mhm.
the the ADRS and everything else.
Is in in B.
No, the IDs are here. Yeah,
this is the BI mean this is the data
Alright.
stream option, option B.
Mhm.
Um.
3.
So.
I actually like it.
Hmm.
I just want to put it like this.
We clean.
Mm.
So this is ours, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uh.
This should be ignored though.
In the calculation this step.
Hello.
And also we have the duplicate dev
testing.
Mhm.
Actually, if you will.
So it's about how much less.
Hmm.
OK, so yeah, I need to.
Check them now again with regards to the
days and compare it to what I had.
Well,
of course this is just like our
Yeah.
estimations like that's the idea that
everyone like just shares the estimations
from his point of view and decision of
course something else.
Sure.
Yeah,
I think we have to play a bit with the,
how did you say the cut where we cut off
the POC? This gives us lower efforts.
I think that's probably what what the
client expects.
I don't have a number in my head.
What would be OK or would be too much or
I need to talk to Martin.
He has the better client access here,
but it's great to have these things,
I mean.
It's basically now a really good
foundation of what actually needs to be
done and what is expected to be provided
to us.
So it's a great resource to write this
actual offer.
Yeah.
Good. Thanks a lot. That's very,
very good output.
Sure.
And I'll pass it on to Martin so we can
send it out, I don't know,
as soon as possible.
Also, I think like, yeah, I'm not, well,
I'm not sure about buffer.
So everything's like bug fixing and stuff,
but there's no bug fixing, right?
Mm.
Because this is just the POC,
so I think we should be fine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just also,
I think it feels a bit weird that we'd
have to do this in detail for POC because
of this new process. But in the end,
I think it helps everybody, both sides.
To get better, yeah, timelines as well.
Oh.
To be honest,
I think that like it's the only way that
we like provide somewhat proper
estimations because otherwise we might
skip some very big and important tasks
and end up like taking twice much of the
Mm.
time that we.
Yeah.
Either that or you charge too much.
There have also been ideas about T-shirt
Yeah.
sized concepts like you would.
You can pull a 5 day, 10 day,
15 day PRC and just do it from a gut
feeling.
But the first reaction from the client
was.
That's too rough because then you
probably sometimes he overpays or we
underestimate and it doesn't make sense.
So it's gonna be individual in my opinion,
like we did it here,
and I think we will also become faster if
we do this more often because the format
will establish what we need to deliver.
For example,
if we do it that deep like you did as in
on task level or not and so on.
So I think it's it's the process we can
streamline.
OK.
Thanks a lot.
I need to jump and we'll get feedback.
Hey, sure. Thank you.
Thanks. Bye.
Thank you. Bye.